docs: login history (#3261)
Unleash/unleash: website/docs/reference/login-history.md

---
title: Login history
---

:::info

Login history is an enterprise feature available from Unleash 4.22 onwards.

:::

Login history lets you track login events in your Unleash instance, and whether the attempts were successful in logging in or not. 

![Login history table](/img/login-history-table.png)

For each login event, it lists:

 - **Created**: When it happened
 - **Username**: The username that was used
 - **Authentication**: The authentication type that was used
 - **IP address**: The IP address that made the attempt
 - **Success**: Whether the attempt was successful or not
 - **Failure reason**: If the attempt was not successful, the reason why

> You can see the failure reason by hovering over the "False" badge in the "Success" column.

Author: Not currently, no. This is something we may try to improve in terms of UI/UX at a later stage, and I suspect we may have similar issues in other places.

On a touch screen, it seems like you can still access it by long-pressing the badge.

> You can see the failure reason by hovering over the "False" badge in the "Success" column.

Reviewer: Got it. So as it stands today: you **cannot** find this information with only a keyboard?

> You can see the failure reason by hovering over the "False" badge in the "Success" column.

Author: I don't think so, no.

> You can see the failure reason by hovering over the "False" badge in the "Success" column.

Reviewer: Thanks! I'll add it to the a11y project, then!

![Login history table failure reason](/img/login-history-table-fail.png)

Use login history to:

- Audit login events in your Unleash instance
- Identify failed login attempts and investigate the cause
- Debug misconfigured authentication providers

> 

Author: WDYT about https://github.com/Unleash/unleash/pull/3261/commits/afb7de3d0460f4a3bfac7636869171e370ddef1c?

## Retention

> Events in the login history are retained for 336 hours (14 days) by default. This setting can be found under the key `login_history_retention` in the `settings` table.

Author: It's the internal `settings` database table. Not sure if I should mention it here 🤔 
Currently we have no way of setting this through the UI because we don't have a "general settings" page.

> Events in the login history are retained for 336 hours (14 days) by default. This setting can be found under the key `login_history_retention` in the `settings` table.

Author: AFAIK currently there's no way of configuring this setting other than directly setting the value in this database table. Maybe @chriswk can chime in with some more valuable input here.

> Events in the login history are retained for 336 hours (14 days) by default. This setting can be found under the key `login_history_retention` in the `settings` table.

Reviewer: Got it! In that case, I'd suggest we remove how it's stored at the moment. How's this? 

```suggestion
Events in the login history are retained for 336 hours (14 days).
```

Events older than the retention period are automatically deleted, and you won't be able to recover them. If you would like to collect login event information past the retention period, we suggest periodically downloading the login history.

> In order to access and download the existing login history in your Unleash instance, you can follow the [how to download login history](../how-to/how-to-download-login-history.mdx) guide.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/Unleash/unleash/pull/3261/commits/afb7de3d0460f4a3bfac7636869171e370ddef1c

---
title: Login history
---

:::info

Login history is an enterprise feature available from Unleash 4.22 onwards.

:::

Unleash's login history lets you track login events in your Unleash instance, and whether the attempts were successful in logging in or not. 

![Login history table](/img/login-history-table.png)

For each login event, it lists:

 - **Created**: When it happened
 - **Username**: The username that was used
 - **Authentication**: The authentication type that was used
 - **IP address**: The IP address that made the attempt
 - **Success**: Whether the attempt was successful or not
 - **Failure reason**: If the attempt was not successful, the reason why

You can see the failure reason by hovering over the "False" badge in the "Success" column.

![Login history table failure reason](/img/login-history-table-fail.png)

Use the login history to:

- Audit login events in your Unleash instance
- Identify failed login attempts and investigate the cause
- Debug misconfigured authentication providers

> You're able to download the current login history at any time. If you'd like, you can also delete single login events, or clear the login history by deleting all the events.
> 
> In order to access and download the existing login history in your Unleash instance, you can follow the [how to download login history](../how-to/how-to-download-login-history.mdx) guide.

Reviewer: Nice! But maybe we can rephrase it a bit? How about something like this?

```suggestion
The login history is mutable: You can [remove individual login attempts or clear the entire history](../how-to/how-to-download-login-history.mdx#deleting-login-history-events) by deleting all of them.

Finally, the login history can be downloaded ([how do I download my Unleash login history](../how-to/how-to-download-login-history.mdx)) for external backups, audits, and the like.
```

I think that presents the same information in a clearer manner.

Author: I like it, but now I'm unsure of the importance of having the deletion section: https://github.com/Unleash/unleash/pull/3261#discussion_r1129445483
